

During our project, we will explore the Google PageRank algorithm by designing a model based on it. Focusing on only a subset of Wikipedia pages, we will make a small-scale model, using wikipedia pages as the nodes, and the links to other pages as the edges. By designing this model, we will be able to understand how the popularity of webpages are affected by their backlinks from other pages. 

As we approach this project, we first plan to replicate a small model of Google's PageRank, using a limited number of nodes and edges. PageRank assigns each website a rank, which is then used to help order search results. We will determine this rank by examining the links of going to each page, which give the page a higher rank in proportion to how highly ranked those websites are. 

As we move forward on this project, we could extend it farther. We could model a larger network of pages, which means that would have to account for a large amount of data. 

4) Present 1-3 experiments from these papers that you plan to replicate and 1-3 extensions or variations of those experiments you are considering.

5) Sketch what the results from these experiments might look like, possibly using a cartoon of a graphical result.

6) Explain how you will interpret the results; for example, "If the power spectrum on a log-log scale is approximately linear, we will estimate its slope.  If that slope is near 1, we will conclude that the time series generated by model resembles pink noise."

7) Identify causes for concern.  Review the criteria for what makes a good project, (Links to an external site.)Links to an external site. and identify any areas where your project might be problematic.

8) Outline next steps.  For each team member, what do you plan to work on immediately?  For the team, what do you think you can get done in the first week?  Consider using Trello (or a similar tool) to delegate and track tasks.

Bibliography:

Page, Lawrence and Brin, Sergey and Motwani, Rajeev and Winograd, Terry (1999) The PageRank Citation Ranking: Bringing Order to the Web. Technical Report. Stanford InfoLab.

Page and Brin design a method known as PageRank, which matches web pages objectively in order to calculate a person's interest in them. By modeling each of the website's as nodes, and using links as edges, they created an algorithm that determines the rank of website based on how many websites link to them, taking the popularity of the websites that link to them into consideration. Page and Brin tested their model by comparing the predictions for future citation counts on the Stanford web against the citation counts and found that Pagerank was a better predictor. 

Rogers, Ian. "The Google Pagerank Algorithm and How It Works" IPR Computing Ltd. 

Rogers explains the Google PageRank algorithm by simulating how PageRank is determined using small systems. PageRank determines how important a page is by using how many links from other pages go to the page, and how many links it gives to other websites. Although Rogers did not design his own model, he used a previous algorithm on a smaller network in order to better explain page rank.

deeper inside pagerank

math behind the search engine

